src/content/code-review.mdx, before:

# How to prepare the best PR

## Title - use a convention
Each PR should contain a specific title by the pattern:
- [XX-YYY] Meaningful title
- XX - a project ID from JIRA
- YYY - a task number from JIRA

Please don’t:
- XX-YYY - Lorem ipsum dolor
- [XX-YYY] - Lorem ipsum dolor
- XX-YYY: Lorem ipsum dolor

## Description - describe short&well
Each PR should contain a short description. It should be written briefly and mention about important changes which were implemented in your PR. All important things should be included, e.g. specific problems fixed by controversial code. It’s needed to avoid unnecessary questions while CR and by this way to shorten the whole process.

In our PR template you should also do some “self checks” which helps you to include all of the helpful information for reviewers. See the next section for more details about it.

## Self checks
Before requesting a review from your colleagues, you need to make some self checks. It’s important to avoid simple code issues which can be easily eliminated so that reviewer will need to spend less time on your PR :muscle:

What you should do:
- Self CR'd - Remember to make a self CR. Sometimes a console.log is left in code after debugging or some commented code. All this stuff you can find by yourself and fix immediately. Ofc wonder about your code, maybe there is something you can improve and show reviewers an amazing code with no issues to fix.
- Tests included - all new code (components, hooks) should have dedicated tests. If your PR contains a bug fixed, then you should probably fix tests too. This check means that you took care of tests related to code you changed.
- Description and screenshots attached - not only a description (see 1.2.) is needed in the PR. Screenshots are also helpful to get an overview of the implemented part without opening a preview, or to find the changed/implemented part on a preview faster.

## PR status - didn’t finish? Create a draft PR
Remember to push your code everyday. It’s not only for emergency cases, but also needed to show your daily progress.

That’s why you will need a draft PR. We are using it to create a PR „work in progress” - to show somebody a code or a deploy preview.
![Create draft PR](/code-review-guide/create-draft-pr.png)

When the code is ready, click a „Ready for review” button.
![Ready for review](/code-review-guide/ready-for-review.png)

## Reviewers
When you’re finally ready for a code review it’s time to add reviewers. The best way to do it is to add them in the „Reviewers” field in PR, but it should be made automatically with project configuration in .github/auto_assign.yml file.

When you’re a reviewer, you should get a notification about somebody requesting a review from you. From that moment you should do a code review within 24h.


# PR didn’t begin while creating a PR

## Branch - how to name it?
Your branch should always be created with a similar convention as previously mentioned.

The best will be XX-YYY-lorem-ipsum-dolor, where XX-YYY is a task ID and the rest is a few words about part of code inside
E.g. MEC-100-error-ui, ABC-123-modal-component, MEC-001-project-init.
If it’s more convenient for you, it’s also good to use lowercase branches.

Why is it important?

JIRA will automatically connect your branch to a task, if you will use a task ID in the branch name. This way it’s visible for everyone that there is a code connected to this task or not.

The second reason is the list of branches. When you’re trying to find some code, branches named „test” or „asdadsdasdf” tell you nothing and you don’t know it’s a branch ready to remove, or it’s something you are looking for. Also an alone task ID is hard to “understand”, so that’s why a hybrid of task ID and some meaningful words are recommended.


## Commit - how many changes?
Try to commit your changes in small parts. It’s hard when we are focused on making something working properly, but it’s important for others to see „a list of changes” and maybe cherry-pick one of your commits. The example can be commit with a new package added to project in your PR, but which can be helpful for somebody to use it too before you finish a whole PR&CR process.
The general rule is to commit „one thing” per commit described in a meaningful way.

Examples:

DO: „tests for input component”, „select added to storybook”, „modal - UI component”, „link formatting helper added”

DON’T: „fixes”, „CR fixes”, „link” - they are not meaningful, „general UI components” - sounds like there are many things inside like a few components


## Force-pushing - do or don’t?
If your PR is in the code review process it’s not good to force-push on it. Remember it’s a change of commits history. You are not obligated to forget about force-pushing, but use it only on private branches that were not yet reviewed. Otherwise it breaks the tracking mechanism and may lead to review duplication.


# Code review flow in general

## Request a review

### How?
If you’re creating a PR (not a draft), then reviewers are usually requested automatically by the project’s configuration (.github/auto_assign.yml file). If not - add reviewers in the “Reviewers” section.

What is not a request for a review:

Comment with a mention of somebody - It doesn’t mean you can’t mention a reviewer in a comment. You can do it, if you want to ensure they will read something or you just want an answer for a question you asked. It means the mention is not a “review request”, so the reviewer knows he/she doesn’t have to spend time reviewing your code once again. He/she will focus only on pointed things.


### Who?
If there is no auto_assign configuration, then you have to choose some reviewers. Try to request a review from people who can give the best feedback for your part of the code. It doesn’t mean you should always request a review from the same person, who is the most experienced reviewer in your team. It means you should look for somebody, who e.g. is an author of a part of code you changed,  was engaged in related issues in the past, has experience in similar issues or is just focused on CSS details while reviewing and you need this focus for your UI part.
Don’t always request the same person if it’s not necessary. Remember that code review is a responsibility of each teammate independently from experience and it costs energy & time. Don’t exploit a single person, give a chance to learn for others.


### How long?
If you were requested for a review, remember it’s your responsibility. It’s not a kindness from you to review somebody’s code. You are obligated to do it within 24h.

It has the same level of importance as the tasks you’re working on, as the review is required for other people’s tasks to become successfully completed.
Remember about a team goal :)


## Comments from reviewers

### How to be a good reviewer?
[TBA]


### Should I change everything that was requested?
It depends on the mentioned issue, but the general rule is: you can, but you don’t have to. If a reviewer found a bug in your code, then you should fix it. If somebody requests a change, which seems not good enough for you, you can ask for argumentation or give some different point of view. A reviewer can make a mistake the same as a code author, so try to do a substantive discussion. Feel free to challenge the reviewer's opinion and present your point .


## Fixes
If you agree with a mentioned issue and you want to fix it, remember to make it easy to verify.


### Commit per fix
It’s not good to implement all fixes and commit them in a one commit named “CR fixes”, because it’s hard for the reviewer to verify all of them together and it’s not consistent with committing rules.
E.g. if somebody requests to fix a typo in your function name, then fix it and commit as “Typo of function name fixed” (or something similar).


### Links to fixes in threads
Name of the commit could be not enough. Imagine 50 fixes to your code and a reviewer trying to find a commit related to a comment while verifying it’s resolved or not. It will be easier for a reviewer to have a link to a commit with a related fix in a thread. It will be helpful for you too, because you will see what you fixed and what you didn’t yet.


### Request a re-review
If all fixes are done remember to request a re-review from a reviewer. You should do it the same way as requesting a review for the first time.

![Request a re-review](/code-review-guide/request-re-review.png)


### Resolving conversation
“Resolve conversation” button should be clicked by the comment author after reaching a conclusion about the discussed topic (e.g. when an expected fix is applied or there is a convincing con-argument).

# FAQ

## Labels - should I use them?
We usually don’t use labels, because all labels stuff we are organising with currently available tools:
- „work in progress” - draft PR
- „blocked” - changes requested / draft PR / description
- „ready for CR” - request somebody a CR with ![Re-review](/code-review-guide/re-review-icon.png)
- „in QA” - can be marked in self checks


## What is more important - preparing a new PR or code reviewing?
It’s really important to remember the priority of finishing open PRs. The main motivation is making tasks “DONE”. You should always try to do re-reviews for the first, because they are usually faster than doing a review of a new code. If there are new PRs on the list, it’s better to review them before adding the next ones.

Priority is based on a task status and is comparably high as its status. Just remember to focus on these tasks which are the closest to the “done” status.

That’s why the code review has higher priority than preparing a new PR. Remember that 24h is a maximum limit of time. It doesn’t mean you can always do a review after 23h.

## Should I use “code suggestions”?
If it’s helpful for you - yes, you should. In some cases it’s easier to add a strict code suggestion than writing a comment with a change proposition. The main advantage of this way is less time spent on committing a fix by an author, because the only thing to do is a click on a button.

:warning: The committed suggestion should be always validated if it doesn’t cause any issue, (e.g. fails of type checking). Take care of that.

## Can I use integration branches?
No, you should avoid integration branches. It's because they usually cause really big merges to a master branch, which can be dangerous even if every part of code was reviewed and tested earlier.
Generally the best practise is to merge as small part of code as it's possible.

It may be not clear what to do with large tasks, which should be presented on production only whole. There are more than one solution for these kind of situations:

**Puzzle / Chain**

If it's possible a large task should be split into smaller parts and then these parts should represents parts of code (PRs). If you need to create many components to implement something, then use storybook to implement each component separately [1].
This way the component is able to be reviewed (small PR) and tested (visible in storybook).
- You are not limited with a number of components you implemented while this process, because each PR is merged to a master as an individual subtask and is ready to use by every collaborator.
- This way avoids a long-time waiting for a code from a large task.

The last part (PR) which should be implemented is an integration of earlier implemented components. It means this part will contain an usage of these components and after merge a whole task will be visible on production [2].
This process is like a puzzle, where each piece is created separately. QA can test each part separately or only the last part where integration is made.

[1] In the best scenario each component can be implemented separately based on master branch. If it's not possible in your case, you can do a branches-chain, where each next part is based on a precious one, like A->B->C.
Remember: this way can cause a longer CR process, because changing a base in PR can dismiss reviews.

[2] If the last (integration) part is too large for single PR, then you can use a **feature-flag** to hide some parts on production (flag is off on production environment).

**Protected branch**

Sometimes the above process can be impossible or really hard to use, then you can use an "integration branch", **BUT** there are some requirements.
Remember that a recommendation of **not** using integration branches is not only a big-merges problem. We need to be sure that each part merged to this branch was really approved while a CR process.
A standard feature-branch can't ensure us, because they are not protected - this means you can push everything into it.

**If you are really sure there is no different sensible way** to organize a large task in a repository, then create a protected branch to force each line of code of being verified.

How to create a protected branch?
[TBA]

Commit message:

Add 'in QA' label and comments colors to CR guide

src/content/code-review.mdx, after:

# How to prepare the best PR

## Title - use a convention
Each PR should contain a specific title by the pattern:
- [XX-YYY] Meaningful title
- XX - a project ID from JIRA
- YYY - a task number from JIRA

Please don’t:
- XX-YYY - Lorem ipsum dolor
- [XX-YYY] - Lorem ipsum dolor
- XX-YYY: Lorem ipsum dolor

## Description - describe short&well
Each PR should contain a short description. It should be written briefly and mention about important changes which were implemented in your PR. All important things should be included, e.g. specific problems fixed by controversial code. It’s needed to avoid unnecessary questions while CR and by this way to shorten the whole process.

In our PR template you should also do some “self checks” which helps you to include all of the helpful information for reviewers. See the next section for more details about it.

## Self checks
Before requesting a review from your colleagues, you need to make some self checks. It’s important to avoid simple code issues which can be easily eliminated so that reviewer will need to spend less time on your PR :muscle:

What you should do:
- Self CR'd - Remember to make a self CR. Sometimes a console.log is left in code after debugging or some commented code. All this stuff you can find by yourself and fix immediately. Ofc wonder about your code, maybe there is something you can improve and show reviewers an amazing code with no issues to fix.
- Tests included - all new code (components, hooks) should have dedicated tests. If your PR contains a bug fixed, then you should probably fix tests too. This check means that you took care of tests related to code you changed.
- Description and screenshots attached - not only a description (see 1.2.) is needed in the PR. Screenshots are also helpful to get an overview of the implemented part without opening a preview, or to find the changed/implemented part on a preview faster.

## PR status - didn’t finish? Create a draft PR
Remember to push your code everyday. It’s not only for emergency cases, but also needed to show your daily progress.

That’s why you will need a draft PR. We are using it to create a PR „work in progress” - to show somebody a code or a deploy preview.
![Create draft PR](/code-review-guide/create-draft-pr.png)

When the code is ready, click a „Ready for review” button.
![Ready for review](/code-review-guide/ready-for-review.png)

## Reviewers
When you’re finally ready for a code review it’s time to add reviewers. The best way to do it is to add them in the „Reviewers” field in PR, but it should be made automatically with project configuration in .github/auto_assign.yml file.

When you’re a reviewer, you should get a notification about somebody requesting a review from you. From that moment you should do a code review within 24h.


# PR didn’t begin while creating a PR

## Branch - how to name it?
Your branch should always be created with a similar convention as previously mentioned.

The best will be XX-YYY-lorem-ipsum-dolor, where XX-YYY is a task ID and the rest is a few words about part of code inside
E.g. MEC-100-error-ui, ABC-123-modal-component, MEC-001-project-init.
If it’s more convenient for you, it’s also good to use lowercase branches.

Why is it important?

JIRA will automatically connect your branch to a task, if you will use a task ID in the branch name. This way it’s visible for everyone that there is a code connected to this task or not.

The second reason is the list of branches. When you’re trying to find some code, branches named „test” or „asdadsdasdf” tell you nothing and you don’t know it’s a branch ready to remove, or it’s something you are looking for. Also an alone task ID is hard to “understand”, so that’s why a hybrid of task ID and some meaningful words are recommended.


## Commit - how many changes?
Try to commit your changes in small parts. It’s hard when we are focused on making something working properly, but it’s important for others to see „a list of changes” and maybe cherry-pick one of your commits. The example can be commit with a new package added to project in your PR, but which can be helpful for somebody to use it too before you finish a whole PR&CR process.
The general rule is to commit „one thing” per commit described in a meaningful way.

Examples:

DO: „tests for input component”, „select added to storybook”, „modal - UI component”, „link formatting helper added”

DON’T: „fixes”, „CR fixes”, „link” - they are not meaningful, „general UI components” - sounds like there are many things inside like a few components


## Force-pushing - do or don’t?
If your PR is in the code review process it’s not good to force-push on it. Remember it’s a change of commits history. You are not obligated to forget about force-pushing, but use it only on private branches that were not yet reviewed. Otherwise it breaks the tracking mechanism and may lead to review duplication.


# Code review flow in general

## Request a review

### How?
If you’re creating a PR (not a draft), then reviewers are usually requested automatically by the project’s configuration (.github/auto_assign.yml file). If not - add reviewers in the “Reviewers” section.

What is not a request for a review:

Comment with a mention of somebody - It doesn’t mean you can’t mention a reviewer in a comment. You can do it, if you want to ensure they will read something or you just want an answer for a question you asked. It means the mention is not a “review request”, so the reviewer knows he/she doesn’t have to spend time reviewing your code once again. He/she will focus only on pointed things.


### Who?
If there is no auto_assign configuration, then you have to choose some reviewers. Try to request a review from people who can give the best feedback for your part of the code. It doesn’t mean you should always request a review from the same person, who is the most experienced reviewer in your team. It means you should look for somebody, who e.g. is an author of a part of code you changed,  was engaged in related issues in the past, has experience in similar issues or is just focused on CSS details while reviewing and you need this focus for your UI part.
Don’t always request the same person if it’s not necessary. Remember that code review is a responsibility of each teammate independently from experience and it costs energy & time. Don’t exploit a single person, give a chance to learn for others.


### How long?
If you were requested for a review, remember it’s your responsibility. It’s not a kindness from you to review somebody’s code. You are obligated to do it within 24h.

It has the same level of importance as the tasks you’re working on, as the review is required for other people’s tasks to become successfully completed.
Remember about a team goal :)


## Comments from reviewers

### How to be a good reviewer?
To make your comments more clear, it will be great to use some colorful icons which will indicate a criticality level.
- [no color] - something to remember in the future, a question, request for explanation, memes. This comment is not important and doesn't have impact in a review (not a blocker, not an accept).
- [green] - code changes suggestions, small fixes of namings, interpunction, which doesn't have large impact in code quality. These comments can be skipped by a PR's author. Author can resolve those comments.
- [yellow] - potentially important problems, which has an impact in maintenance, tests, or can cause a technical debt. These comments should be covered by a fix, a discussion or a JIRA task with next steps. This comment can be resolved by it's author only. If a 'yellow' comment is added while 'in QA' label is pinned, PR's author can decide about it.
- [red] - a code bug, which needs to be fixed. It's an absolute blocker and should be fixed, even if a 'in QA' label is pinned.


### Should I change everything that was requested?
It depends on the mentioned issue, but the general rule is: you can, but you don’t have to. If a reviewer found a bug in your code, then you should fix it. If somebody requests a change, which seems not good enough for you, you can ask for argumentation or give some different point of view. A reviewer can make a mistake the same as a code author, so try to do a substantive discussion. Feel free to challenge the reviewer's opinion and present your point .


## Fixes
If you agree with a mentioned issue and you want to fix it, remember to make it easy to verify.


### Commit per fix
It’s not good to implement all fixes and commit them in a one commit named “CR fixes”, because it’s hard for the reviewer to verify all of them together and it’s not consistent with committing rules.
E.g. if somebody requests to fix a typo in your function name, then fix it and commit as “Typo of function name fixed” (or something similar).


### Links to fixes in threads
Name of the commit could be not enough. Imagine 50 fixes to your code and a reviewer trying to find a commit related to a comment while verifying it’s resolved or not. It will be easier for a reviewer to have a link to a commit with a related fix in a thread. It will be helpful for you too, because you will see what you fixed and what you didn’t yet.


### Request a re-review
If all fixes are done remember to request a re-review from a reviewer. You should do it the same way as requesting a review for the first time.

![Request a re-review](/code-review-guide/request-re-review.png)


### Resolving conversation
“Resolve conversation” button should be clicked by the comment author after reaching a conclusion about the discussed topic (e.g. when an expected fix is applied or there is a convincing con-argument).

# FAQ

## Labels - should I use them?
We usually don’t use labels, because almost all labels stuff we are organising with currently available tools:
- „work in progress” - draft PR
- „blocked” - changes requested / draft PR / description
- „ready for CR” - request somebody a CR with ![Re-review](/code-review-guide/re-review-icon.png)

You should use a label „in QA” when code review process is finished and a task is in QA. When you add this label, new comments can be skipped (if mentioned issues are not critical).


## What is more important - preparing a new PR or code reviewing?
It’s really important to remember the priority of finishing open PRs. The main motivation is making tasks “DONE”. You should always try to do re-reviews for the first, because they are usually faster than doing a review of a new code. If there are new PRs on the list, it’s better to review them before adding the next ones.

Priority is based on a task status and is comparably high as its status. Just remember to focus on these tasks which are the closest to the “done” status.

That’s why the code review has higher priority than preparing a new PR. Remember that 24h is a maximum limit of time. It doesn’t mean you can always do a review after 23h.

## Should I use “code suggestions”?
If it’s helpful for you - yes, you should. In some cases it’s easier to add a strict code suggestion than writing a comment with a change proposition. The main advantage of this way is less time spent on committing a fix by an author, because the only thing to do is a click on a button.

:warning: The committed suggestion should be always validated if it doesn’t cause any issue, (e.g. fails of type checking). Take care of that.

## Can I use integration branches?
No, you should avoid integration branches. It's because they usually cause really big merges to a master branch, which can be dangerous even if every part of code was reviewed and tested earlier.
Generally the best practise is to merge as small part of code as it's possible.

It may be not clear what to do with large tasks, which should be presented on production only whole. There are more than one solution for these kind of situations:

**Puzzle / Chain**

If it's possible a large task should be split into smaller parts and then these parts should represents parts of code (PRs). If you need to create many components to implement something, then use storybook to implement each component separately [1].
This way the component is able to be reviewed (small PR) and tested (visible in storybook).
- You are not limited with a number of components you implemented while this process, because each PR is merged to a master as an individual subtask and is ready to use by every collaborator.
- This way avoids a long-time waiting for a code from a large task.

The last part (PR) which should be implemented is an integration of earlier implemented components. It means this part will contain an usage of these components and after merge a whole task will be visible on production [2].
This process is like a puzzle, where each piece is created separately. QA can test each part separately or only the last part where integration is made.

[1] In the best scenario each component can be implemented separately based on master branch. If it's not possible in your case, you can do a branches-chain, where each next part is based on a precious one, like A->B->C.
Remember: this way can cause a longer CR process, because changing a base in PR can dismiss reviews.

[2] If the last (integration) part is too large for single PR, then you can use a **feature-flag** to hide some parts on production (flag is off on production environment).

**Protected branch**

Sometimes the above process can be impossible or really hard to use, then you can use an "integration branch", **BUT** there are some requirements.
Remember that a recommendation of **not** using integration branches is not only a big-merges problem. We need to be sure that each part merged to this branch was really approved while a CR process.
A standard feature-branch can't ensure us, because they are not protected - this means you can push everything into it.

**If you are really sure there is no different sensible way** to organize a large task in a repository, then create a protected branch to force each line of code of being verified.

How to create a protected branch?
[TBA]
